While growing up in North Bergen, New Jersey, Brooks endured a fractured family life and passed the time by reading and writing. After dropping out of New York University, he got a job as an usher at CBS, going on to write for the CBS News broadcasts. He moved
 to Los Angeles in 1965 to work on David L. Wolper

 's documentaries. After being laid off he met producer Allan Burns who secured him a job as a writer
 on the series My Mother the Car. Brooks wrote for several shows before being hired as a story editor on
 My Friend Tony and later created the series Room 222. Grant Tinker hired Brooks and Burns at MTM

 Homer Jay Simpson is the protagonist of the American animated sitcom The Simpsons.[1] He is voiced by Dan
 Castellaneta and first appeared, along with the rest of the Simpsons, in The Tracey Ullman Show short "Good Night" on April 19, 1987. Homer was created by the cartoonist Matt Groening while he was waiting in the lobby of producer James L. Brooks's office. Groening had been called to pitch a series of shorts based on his comic strip Life in Hell but instead created a new set of characters. He named the character after his father, Homer Groening. After appearing for three seasons on The Tracey Ullman Show, the Simpsons received their own series on Fox,
 which debuted on December 17, 1989.
While growing up in North Bergen, New Jersey, Brooks endured a fractured family life and passed the time by
reading and writing. After dropping out of New York University, he got a job as an usher at CBS, going on to
write for the CBS News broadcasts. He moved to Los Angeles in 1965 to work on David L. Wolper's documentaries.
 After being laid off he met producer Allan Burns who secured him a job as a writer on the series My Mother the Car.
 Brooks wrote for several shows before being hired as a story editor on My Friend Tony and later created the series
 Room 222. Grant Tinker hired Brooks and Burns at MTM

 In the shorts and earlier episodes, Castellaneta voiced Homer with a loose
 impression of Walter Matthau; however, during the second and third seasons of the half-hour show,
 Homer's voice evolved to become more robust, to allow the expression of a fuller range of emotions.
 He has appeared in other media relating to The Simpsons—including video games, The Simpsons Movie, T
 he Simpsons Ride, commercials, and comic books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise. His signature catchphrase, the annoyed grunt "D'oh!", has been included in The New Oxford Dictionary of English since 1998 and the
 Oxford English Dictionary since 2001.